I'm going to choose German because that's my keyboard layout and continue. I will leave everything on the defaults, continue.
And here you see this warning that says that erase these any so on to option will basically delete your programs, documents, photos, whatever in all a prince system. Now, don't be afraid of this warning because the disk that this refers to is actually
The virtual disk that we allocated to our VM, right? So our main operating system, these will not be affected. This is really only the part that we allocated for VM, which means that erasing the virtual disk will not affect or mean host, so you're into work here and reason you have this warning.
And it's also scary because, as I said, this installation image is actually also for physical computers, right? Not only for virtual machines. So obviously, on a physical machine where you're installing it on your whole computer without a hypervisor, then you may consider the warning that
Everything will be erased on your computer. In our case, we are starting with a blank virtual disk anyways, so it doesn't matter and I'm going to do install now and again we have this dialogue — you really want to change or rewrite the disk to be really sure. As I said, this is just a virtual disk so go for it and continue.
You.
Thus medication.
And now we're going to create the Linux user and fiscal is and upon to
Password.
And I'm going to check logging automatically and continue.
And while it's installing and downloading different stuff it actually shows you all these things that you can install additionally like music players and some other applications but we're not going to need any of those and as mentioned previously this Linux operating system that we're installing now on bridge
Machine doesn't actually know that it's on a virtual machine so everything that it does is exactly the same way as you would install Linux operating system on an actual physical machine.
The steps are really the same.
So installation completed and we're actually good to go. Going to restart. While the VM is restarting, remove the disk image now that the installation is complete.
Click devices optical drive and remove and we should see a boot to desktop in our virtual machine window.
I'm going to do skip and next.
You need to confirm some settings here.
And we get your.
So basically have all these applications that are installed by default.
Including a Firefox browser and
The Linux command line.
Now first of all you see that's the input output devices like of is the screen but also mouse and keyboard they're all responsive here so basically you are sharing this resources also between your main operating system so you can visit here but also inside the virtual machine however other than the server
We think is completely isolated so whatever is running inside and whatever we're doing here is completely isolated from the host operating system so before we continue with Linux let's actually see some other options that we can set on virtual machines from the VirtualBox.
So first of all if I want to shut down my virtual machine.
I have
Several options. One of them is saving the machine state so that means with basically whatever state you are in for example you have a browser open here with some tabs you have terminal window open maybe you haven't any two or were you are writing some code you can basically save that stay
It's so all is open tabs
Like this
So after some time if you want to go back to your virtual machine and basically continue working then you can just click start.
And you're going to see
Your virtual machine window exactly as you left it. Another option is just shutting off the machine which basically just shuts down your virtual machine it's basically just like shutting down your computer right doing a basic shut down here.
Another thing that may be very interesting especially if you're using the virtual machine to basically learn something you may want to be able to copy and paste between your host and the virtual machine and as I said the mouse and keyboard is active in both a default you can basically just copy paste.
Copy and paste in a virtual machine window it's not gonna work however you can actually enable that in the settings advanced.
And right here shared clipboard so you can basically said this so that you can only copy stuff from the host to the guest vice versa or you can do it bidirectional.
And as I said this will make it convenient if you want to basically copy some commands to have on your operating system and to or whatever and you wanted basically just paste in a terminal or if you have a link that you want to open the browser here so then maybe
Convenience so Michigan select that.
And save it.
However for these bidirectional clean or sharing work the first have to install.
Something called an extension.
Original box.
So if you go back to his return.
Each we have for the same version that we'd stop her we have and be ambrosial box extension packs and there's one installer for all the platforms so we're going to click on that and download so basically it's a small extra package that lets you add some functionality
Adding to your for toolbox so I'm gonna click on it.
And stuff.
And agree on a licensing.
And there go the expansion pack was successfully installed however there is one final thing we need to do here so that the copy pasting can work some gonna open the virtual machine first and right here on the top you have a couple of options one of
Damn is devices and here we have something called guest additions so guest additions package is actually a one specifically enabling base copy paste or drag drop functionality.
And if I click on insert guest additions to the image.
To run the installer script of the contents of the disk drive right click.
Auto run dog as h and select run as program.
Authentic aid so the guest additions installer rent we can click to return and if I click here you see this is the folder actually were all these runners and installers are located in we can unmarked it.
And now this actually test the functionality so I'm gonna copy.
The euro from my host and try to paste right here.
And they're young.
And the same way you can paste comments from your host machine to the terminal so if I'm reading a tutorial and if I found some really large command that I don't want to tied in I can just copy it here on my host again back to the terminal haste.
And they go.
So that's how you set up clipboard sharing between the host and virtual machine.
This is very convenient if you're learning or testing out stuff in your VM.
Another thing which is also very interesting.
Is that by default virtual machine actually runs in its own virtual network which is completely isolated from your hosts network right so your laptop your computer is running on your home network however the virtual machine is not in that same edward and if you actually
He scanned all the devices on your whole network you won't see your virtual machine on it.
And the same way if someone accesses your virtual machines network and basically hacked into it they won't be able to access your home network because again they're isolated which is good for security and that's how it said by default however you can also change that and basically and your virtual machine to the same network as your
Host operating system so it's gonna get an IP address within the same network.
And you can change that settings the network tab here.
However we don't need that so we gonna leave that at the default and there are some other things that you can basically sheer between the host and the guest operating system.
Like shared folders etc.
Just know that when you start basically sharing stuff between the host and guest operating systems like sharing files and folders and basically is clipboard ensuring network in may be convenient because you may have use cases for that however in that case we're going to be making home.
I was in these isolation between the host and guess operating systems right which is great because the guest operating system cannot affect the host the main operating system because they're completely isolated however if you start sharing resources then you are disrupting that complete isolation so.
Or just important to be aware of that so with this type of sharing and settings you may be compromising security and aren't is the only thing we shared his clipboard and everything else will stay the same.
And since we have Linux when to set up in the next video we're gonna go through being operating system and learn some basics of each starting with the Linux file system.

